---
author: Thilo
title: 2020 co.up reborn
---

## phasing out coworking

A little more than two years ago we phased out our coworking offerings entirely. When I was first presented with that possibility, I was sad, but I also saw that it was the time to move on. While I'm still excited about the potential of coworking, our focus had clearly shifted to growing the Cobot team and we had barely gotten to know the new coworkers who joined our space. That’s not how we wanted our coworking space to operate. We looked around and saw that these days, there were many great alternatives to co.up in Berlin for interested coworkers that we could recommend. We were able to keep offering the space for events thanks to a continued sublease by our friends from the [Mapbox](https://www.mapbox.com/) dev team; they knew and understood the flow of the space in the evening and didn't mind that sometimes the floor would be filled with hundreds of people attending the various events that take place there.

## keeping co.ups soul and coworking roots

Although I barely go to any meetups anymore myself, and haven't had much to do with coordinating them in co.up(thanks to our Office & Events Manager Claire), they‘re still important to me because free and accessible events played an important role in my career, mainly through meeting people and exposure to new ideas. I would even say that this led to the creation of co.up.

In the beginning, my co-founder Alex and I used to run events together with other upstart companies in our office that put us in touch with the people that later would become our fist coworkers. These kinds of tech events have been an integral part of co.up from the beginning. Trying to keep them in our space even as the coworking wound down felt natural; some of my Cobot team members like Kristina keep organizing some until today. Also as a result of these roots just six months ago we developed the [Coworking Code of Conduct](http://coworkingcodeofconduct.org/) based on our accumulated knowledge of running a space, organizing small and large events, and authoring codes of conduct from various team members—we were overjoyed to see it widely adopted.

## The rent increase that

The events at co.up were smoothly humming along, I kept nurturing my coworking roots by building up the [Berlin Coworking Network](https://www.facebook.com/berlincoworking/) as a side project and my work was focused on growing the Cobot team and software. But the next challenge for co.up was looming. We signed our rental contract before the crazy real estate boom and we knew that the market would eventually catch up with us. That happened this past summer and it caught up hard.

Our contract was cancelled and we were offered a new one that cranked up the rent by over 100%. We tried to negotiate with our landlord (GSG), which own more 1. mil sqm of the commercial real estate market in Berlin. But our arguments about the value and potential of co.up were in vain. Their response was that they can't rent this space for a lower price, as this was the market now; as inarguable as the laws of nature. Our only consolation was a brief extension of our existing contract. This gave us the chance to try something else: Asking our community to see if there was not only enough demand but also enough combined financial power to keep co.up open.

## #saveCoUp - an emotional roller coaster

I have to admit that I was skeptical. After we did the math it was clear that we needed 3000 EUR/month for at least 12 months and 10.000 EUR for the security deposit. A staggering amount, extending past our previous crowdfunding attempts multiple times over. But hey, we could try.

How else to say it except that the response was stunning! We immediately received a lot of attention from our community, many sharing their personal story as to why co.up was important to them. That alone made me happy, because it gave us the chance to collect these stories and make them visible as a demonstration of how much value exists in coworking. It was great to see lots of familiar names in the support memberships, even from former members who only stayed a few months many years ago. Plus, lots of people who had already invested a lot of time into this community by organizing events or holding regular talks. The first half of the campaign was mainly driven by support from individuals, with a bit of support from small companies like [Asquera](https://asquera.de/), [bitcrowd](https://bitcrowd.net/), [Evenly](https://evenly.io/), and [neighbourhoodie](https://neighbourhood.ie/) that already had a long relationship with co.up.

Halfway through the campaign, things slowed down and our skepticism re-emerged. We appeared to have reached most of the people who could be reached in our community. However, other companies that had benefited from our community’s diverse background and resources remained absent. Instead of getting angry, our team refocused our efforts to use the personal relationships we had built through co.up to reach out to some larger companies. Christmas was fast approaching, which we considered a critical turning point.

Luckily things began to tip in our favor! As we found out, the gears take a lot more time to turn at larger companies like [Ecosia](https://www.ecosia.org/?c=en) or [INNOQ](https://www.innoq.com/en/), and we had no idea that they’d already begun to raise the issue internally. They came through in the end and we’re so grateful to them for pledging their support. We also learned that it’s much easier for companies to make large one-time payments than monthly contribution so we adapted our support plans accordingly. Another challenge: It took much more explaining and a bit of flexibility from our side to get companies on board.

Things looked really good as we neared Christmas. With commitments from [talent.io](https://www.talent.io/?utm_source=affiliate&utm_medium=referral_link&utm_campaign=[aff]-de-co_up), [Camunda](https://camunda.com/) and [Twillio](https://www.twilio.com/), plus a staggeringly high personal one-time payment, we secured the funding of the security deposit and shot past 90% for the recurring payments by December 19th. On that morning we felt like celebrating; the fact that both budgets are made up of almost 50% by companies and 50% by individuals proved that co.up serves as a connector for the local tech ecosystem, something I’m very proud of.

But the day took a unexpected turn. During lunch a Mapbox team member informed me that they would have to cancel their sublease with us after a recent downsizing of their dev team here in Berlin 🙁. Instead of celebrating, we needed to pivot directly into [searching for a new 3rd floor office renter](../rent-office.html). Still, we considered the crowdfunding a huge success and remain hopeful that we’ll be able to find a new sublease partner.

## This was just the beginning

Above all else, we now see further ways how we as co.up can help bring usergroups, local companies, and individual talent together and help them to help each other. These ideas and new projects will be shared in another post. For me personally, #saveCoUp has become a rebirth of co.up—with a expanded mission that I'm looking forward to pursuing alongside everyone else involved.

2020 is off to a great start. 🙂